okay I am going to call to order the
town of Andover Board of Selectmen
regular meeting for Tuesday November
12th we're getting
started promptly at 7 o'clock tonight uh
our first order of business is the
Pledge of
Allegiance I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the Republic for which it stands one
nation under God indivisible with
liberty and justice for all
thank you very much all
right uh our next uh item is public
speak and we're gonna move on the first
person that we're gonna let speak is
Dave ganian
um actually Dave
um no I want to let you speak please
don't speak about the candidacy okay all
right uh nothing for me then Jeff all
right uh Bata say
issue okay you're good all right we'll
go to Alicia
Lee anything for public speak
Alicia I think she's having problems
connecting we'll come back to her Linda
fish all set all right Liz lat
okay she's not uh Shannon
Laden hi Jeff thanks um I'm just here to
express my support for Alicia Lee for
the vacancy on the board um
demographically I believe that the
vacancy should be filled by a woman and
Alicia is the candidate that as far as I
know was selected by the Republican Town
committee for its endorsement the
position as far as I know cannot be
filled by a Democrat and all three
candidates on tonight's agenda are
registered
Republicans if you don't choose Alicia
tonight it will be the second time that
you will have rejected the Republican
Town committee's endorsed candidate and
I don't think that's the best way to go
about it
thanks Scott so yet I want to basically
um reiterate what Shannon said um one
thing really in favor of Alicia is she's
actually done the job she everything
I've heard was she was great at it so
I'd love to see
her take the role that's
it thank you uh Kate
McIntosh
Greenhouse hi um here for a couple
reasons tonight um one just to express
that I would really like us to have a
tri board meeting I know you guys have
it on your agenda for tonight um would
love if we could have you know decide on
a date for that in the near future um
and then additionally um just to express
my support for bayata um I know she's
been in our town for a few years um we
are often eye to eye and often on
opposing sides of political things um
but she's a great person um she bring a
woman's perspective to the board and
also a mother of young children um which
is something that you guys don't
currently have um so just here to
support her thank
you Liz L has your hand up if you can
speak
now yeah I couldn't uh shut up my audio
um
I just uh want to say hello and if if if
I could for the record could I just tell
the correct spelling of my name I just
went and read back through a few month's
worth of uh meeting minutes and it's all
spelled wrong so if I could just um
correct that for the record sure go
ahead it's l k i
EC I mean I don't expect uh his history
to be fixed but just for going forward
thank
you uh Kathy Mike
plazy good
evening um I just have one thing uh as
Secretary of the endover Republican Town
committee I forwarded a letter of
endorsement from the artc to endorse
Alicia Lee as the committee's choice for
the board of selectman's position to
replace Republican selectman Paula King
thank you
okay uh Celeste
Willard thanks Jeff good evening
everyone um I'm just here to offer um uh
my support along with u my husband Steve
um our support for Bata uh for the
vacancy for the board of
Selectmen um I've worked with Bata and a
number of um different things in town
and um she's for this town I think she
would be a great addition to the board
she's definitely proven that she is
involved and wants to see this town move
forward and um I'm just here to offer my
support okay Bill
pen all right Bill will'll come back to
you Stephen
King good evening can you hear me okay
yes yeah I'm here to support the art
nominated uh um choice for uh border
selectman Alicia Lee um I'd also like to
remind everybody that I would like to
see these meetings in person uh and and
also with a uh an option for an online
uh um option for those who can't attend
and I just want to say thank you
everybody for the support of the recent
election uh even though I barely did any
campaigning I think we did real well and
I'll see you again in two
years Kimberly
pan I'm all set thank you right Joseph
Godwin all said thanks Jee okay Alicia
Lee see if it's working thank you okay
Joan Ebert
okay Linda
Armstrong hard time
getting there you go we'll go back yeah
we can hear you there
okay all right I just wanted to say um
that it really shows a lot of class with
Stephen I mean I'm here to listen to
everything tonight didn't plan on
talking much but I think it shows a
really lot of class that Stephen King
has continued to be really involved in
all of the meetings and showing himself
and coming to support people and um
being involved in the town I love to see
people like that and um that shows a lot
of Class by him thank you it shows he
really is
interested Linda Armstrong
okay sorry lean
Hutchinson nothing thank
you okay and then I'm assuming uh 2345
is attorney
O'Brien if not you are free to public
speak okay did I miss
anyone hi Jeff it's Jerry K calling oh
hi Jerry how you doing good I just want
to thank you and the people that I want
to especially thank are the people who
have run through this vacancy on the
board of Selectmen uh it shows you've
got really good people in this town
people who are willing to donate their
time and work hard and do what it takes
to make this town a better place I was a
little disappointed that here it is the
second round and we're still fa faced
with a vacancy um I think that in a case
like this since that seat has to be a
republican seat and a republican has to
be in it I think it's only makes sense
to me that you go with the Republican
Town committee's endorsed
candidate um I
mean I'm looking at it from both
sides uh as a Republican or a
Democrat uh it's embarrassing to go out
in public and still have this difficulty
I believe the four select people
should have a conversation a discussion
and make a
choice and that's all I have to say I
know it's not an easy Choice it's a very
difficult choice because you have such
good people that are running for it and
vying for it
so do your best and see if you can
produce a a winning candidate thank you
okay um anyone else that I
missed Megan L I don't think I got
you Jeff we're trying to get Carol Lee
to be able to speak for the Recreation
Commission okay can she speak under my
account uh I think we just let her in so
okay perfect
okay Megan uh Carol unmute yourself and
you should be able to
speak okay I am unmuted now there you
go okay
I me see make sure my volume is up I do
apologize it's taking me a while to get
in here I just want to speak on the
town proposed credit card used policy uh
currently the Recreation Commission
votes as a whole on how we're spending
our budget that is given to us by the
board of fining right now with this
proposed credit card use
policy um we would be we are the only
appointed board that would be
under jurisdiction of a town employee so
uh the designated supervisor area
responsibility uh we were told initially
that we are an Advisory Board to the
community Senior Center Director and now
it appears that we're under her
jurisdiction as far as the budget um and
again we're the only appointed board
that is on this list I have the entire
Recreation Commission here with me
tonight um they can all speak through my
computer here just to let you know they
are all opposed we have the five members
and to
Alton um in the past we have voted at
our meetings how to spend our funds we
vote as a commission and then those
minutes are given to the treasurer along
with a signed off credit card use
form so it's not just one person making
the decision as a commission we are
making those decisions how to spend the
fund would anyone else like
to
here hi this is anarie jel um I'm Vice
chair of the rec commission and I agree
with um the statements that Carol made
and also just
um not sure why we have a separate
budget than the community Senior Center
why would we be asking for commission
from from that
organization anyone else
hi this is Robert post I feel the same
way as harell does the rest of the
committee be our own
budget
um that's how I'm gonna vote okay all
right um we I understand we'll sit there
and address that when we get to the
credit
card um item on the
agenda okay thank you very much no
problem all right did I miss anyone else
okay so uh let's move on to item three
additions and changes to the
agenda
anybody okay so I'm G to make a motion
that we push item seven appointment of a
new board of Selectmen candidate to our
December
meeting I'll second
that all right do we have any other
changes or we'd like to talk about this
one right
now okay uh for discussion purposes uh
we had an email thread going that
started on October 23rd by Carol Lee she
brought to our attention that there was
a vacancies with instructions on how to
submit letters it was not posted Jeff
Murray responded on that in the 23rd
where he said I would suggest keeping it
open for the month of November and only
accept letters of interest during that
time that was followed up by a response
from me I said if we do this we will not
appoint our fifth member to uh till
December are all Board of Select members
okay with this carol please fide a list
of potential candidates so on and so
forth followed up by a response back
from Jeff Murray on Tuesday October 29th
my suggestion is to review all new
candidates from here on forward Stephen
King and Joseph Godwin should not be
considered
should not be considered they both
applied went to a vote and were not
selected I am fine with December it
gives new people a chance to apply and
to be considered that was followed up
with Ann CR on the 29th of October
saying I agree with Jeff that we should
only accept new applicants a deadline of
November 30th we'll give a full month
for applications and then vote in
December we could have a special meeting
at the start of December if we want that
was followed up by an email from Scott
it was my understanding at the last
Board of selecting meeting that we
should this is also on October 29th it
was my understanding at the last Board
of Select me meeting that we we would be
cons be selecting candidates our
November meeting I got letters of intent
from Dave castania and be gamsky I
understand that there are three other
interested parties but I have not
received any other letters of intent as
of today we now please plan on the
November date to choose the final
candidates Jeff Murray responded why
rush let's take every opportunity to
make everyone anyone interested can
apply on October 29th so after that we
sat there and Carol Lee put in a letter
that is in the River East it's on page
four of our
packet that states that uh bard of
selectman vacancy any Anover elector who
is not a Democrat and is and is
interested in serving on the board of
Selectmen for a term ending November 16
2027 should should send a letter of
interest to the town of Andover care of
board of selectman vacancy 17 School
Street Andover Connecticut or email
letter to the town clerk at Andover
c.org note due to the minority
representation appointment in the town
Charter their candidate cannot be a
registered Democrat so we've posted that
in the
paper
um I feel it's it's inappropriate to sit
there and vote on this after we had that
discussion we agreed that we were going
to move it to December and now we're
here
today considering to put these new
appointments up
[Music]
so I would like to call this for a
vote so anybody else have anything else
to delete before we vote just or add
anything an Jeff
Scott okay anybody else would like to
talk about uh moving this to December or
keeping it
today je I think given given the posting
in the River East I think we just um I
think it's just prudent that we move it
to
December okay I agree with you all right
all those in favor of uh eliminating
item seven
I I four nothing uh all the candidates
and the members that came so Bata and
and uh Alicia and Dave I apologize uh
but this was something that had been
discussed but I felt it was extremely
important to put it out on the record as
to why we sat there and decided to move
this to December I hope everyone
understands that I would also ask the
public out there to uh any there will be
a republican appointed to this board and
I'm asking you know I think we have
three great candidates to be perfectly
honest three great candidates but if
there is someone else out there that
might be interested in serving their
community and and is smart and common
sense I would I would ask them to apply
because it does not hurt to apply you
know and and I would I'm extremely
sincere about this I want everyone to
apply so um if you have friends out
there and they would be considered uh
you you think they would be good for for
town government and maybe they don't
want to run for this because this is not
an election this is an appointment and I
hope everyone understands this this is
an appointment it's it's not an election
there's no requirement it's four members
voting we just have to find one
candidate that three of us can agree on
so if you have friends out there please
ask them to apply I think it would be
great okay all right let's move on to uh
item four boards and commission
presentations Eric do we have
anything I don't have any that I know of
okay uh item five appointments do we
have any appointments ments to make none
uh item six any resignations and please
tell me no uh yes uh Diane granier
announced today that she was resigning
from the library board due to uh life
complications let's put it that way that
is a sad day um that is a sad day she's
put this town and I think the entire
Community should thank Dian Grenier for
all her years of doing Andover this and
that and to sit there and put the time
in to come to most of our meetings and I
understand that she has um some issues
going on and and I my prayers are
definitely with her
so um and stop with the resignations all
right
um items item eight town administrators
report and just for the record I assume
that you dated your report
incorrectly uh yep certainly did all
right go ahead you can give it to us now
all right so I'm going to share my
screen and just talk you through a
couple things you should see the screen
with my uh administrator's report um
first item up just notification that uh
Diane uh did resign from the library
board um
the second item up and we're going to
discuss
it a little bit later but it's mostly a
board of
Finance uh that should be driving the
Train on this is that uh the there
should be some dates proposed for a
meeting between the board of Finance
Board of Selectmen and Board of
Education that's enshrined in the
charter change that just came out uh it
was supposed to be in uh October but
since that's before the charter change
there's not a lot we can do about it
other than moving that meeting up as
much as possible so the proposed dates
are listed there December 3rd December
12th December
16th um you know it sounds to me at this
point like December 3D seems to be the
most popular among Board of Ed Board of
Finance um but if the board of Selectmen
has a strong opinion on which dates uh
they would most prefer the meeting to be
I will happily pass that on to Mark
Brinker um so um that's the first thing
um and we can discuss that a little bit
later um so I sent around to all the
boards
today uh what my proposal was for the
timing for this year's budget process
since since a lot of things have changed
as the the new Charter takes effect and
the new Charter takes effect immediately
for things related to the uh
budget um the resident say Trooper did
arrest a resident on Center Street uh
for voyerism and a couple other things
um hopefully he'll he'll make big rocks
into little rocks for a while uh in the
penal system um additionally we had a an
individual uh decide to do a large Bur
of leaves in his backyard yesterday that
the fire department and Fire Marshall
had to respond to um I did put out
another warning on the website and the
alert system just to remind people that
they're not supposed to be burning stuff
right now we're still in a in an extreme
fire uh you know uh Red Flag Warning as
far as the state's concerned so please
don't burn
anything uh still working on the
destratification fans for the gym I
still don't have the final quote back
from Seward electric um so that but
hopefully I will have that this week um
stuff related to the community
center um I have a uh a call in to our
Congressional our uh office asking what
the they think the status is likely to
be for the uh Congressional
appropriation that we requested
um the the answer I got back was
probably not until sometime in the
spring uh there would be a decision um
they seem to be a little bit
depressed uh so they kind of hinted that
there might be a low probability of
success at this point so that's all I
know uh you know there's also something
later in the packet talking about sound
dampening for that facility as well as
the town hall um the other thing I
wanted to bring to your attention we
started looking into what it would
cost the the senior group has been
watching movies in town buildings as an
organized group for quite a while um
that's not technically legal so we
started looking into what it cost to
make that legal the bottom line is it's
about 1,500 bucks a year um for the
annual license for centers like our so
it's not a small uh so at some point the
board should make a decision whether
they think that's a valuable thing and
worth the money um or not um there is we
did sign the final paperwork for the
arpa senior center Grant so we have
about $10,000 available right now um and
that we should be uh on the way to
spending by December
31st um so we'll discuss that again
later in in the
packet um we do finally as
of today have the the fiber connection
to the new building up and working we
don't have everything hooked up but we
at least have the Wi-Fi uh working in
that building through a fiber connection
so that's
positive um so the new CEO is hired and
in training um so that's the he's
working both on the Zeo end of things
and also on blight enforcement it's
still going to be months before he's
really capable of taking over for Jim
hesy so that's uh under
underway um I am planning on signing the
nikog contract now regarding the Animal
control officer since we legally can
hire them as our Animal control officer
thanks to the Charter change so that was
good um the other thing I wanted to talk
to the board about is um there were a
lot of people that were unhappy with our
decision as to how we bid out the
roadside mower so what is the board's
feeling about the disposition of the
plow truck and how would the board like
us to I mean it seems like our options
are sended to the auction house um try
to bid it out ourselves or use gov
deals.
um you know and and I'm open for any
solution you want to do I just don't
want to hear about it after the fact so
if you all have guidance on how you want
to do that um I'd be happy to comply hey
Eric why don't we try um why don't we
try around on gov deals with a reserve
and see what we get and then maybe um if
that doesn't pan out maybe we just send
it to auction we get what we
can that would be my recommendation
all right I don't know what everybody
else thinks but that would be my
recommendation that's fine but Eric I
would ask you what is
Jay's what where does Jay feel the town
would get the most
money
um Jay think's the most
likely person to buy that truck is a
town that's desperate and needs a backup
truck um so he thinks we'd be better off
doing it um ourselves and putting it out
on the Public Works list serve but you
know okay can can he give us can he give
us the number that he believes he he
would get so that we could and we could
go slightly under but set the reserve
that Jeff is
requesting sure so you just want it set
with a reserve what Joe what Jay thinks
it's likely to actually sell no what Jay
likely thinks it would sell for the way
that he anticipated doing it so that if
it goes out on the the board that Jeff
is expressing and we're we have a
reserve set for it we at least can get
close to it and you know listen it's a
bid process so you set in the reserve
you're going to get at least the reserve
you may or you may not get anything so
and to add to that if Jay knows that
there's people interested in the truck
you can always tell them it's on gu
deals so
so
yep
okay all right uh so next up um Bunker
Hill bridge design there were uh six uh
design or six companies that sent uh
proposals for to be the uh Bridge
Constructor um for Bunker Hill Bridge of
those six five were disqualified for
failure to meet the bid requirements um
which is really unfortunate and really
piun um
but um since the State Department of
Transportation sent somebody from their
contracts Administration unit and their
engineering department to oversee us
doing the bids um that's the way it is
so we already have the construction
monitoring firm selected so that's
that's under um we're still looking at
around February 15th to start the
utility
relocation and building the first uh
water Coffer Dam so we are still on
schedule for that the contractor that is
selected has a good working
relationship with the construction
inspection firm so that should make
things go slow or go quickly
and at the end of the day the town isn't
paying for any of this anyway um you
know it's being funded by state and
federal tax dollars not Town tax dollars
um right can can you go back to this for
a second because I just got a question
and by the way CDR or CD Maguire has no
relation to me so are you telling me
that we had six applicants bid and five
were disqualified that's exactly what
I'm telling you and the bid was overseen
by CD
McGuire no the bid was overseen by close
Jensen and
Miller um who is the firm the state
hires to manage the design byst State
process for bridge
design okay CDR Maguire is the firm that
actually did the final design of bridge
and they are the company that has to
certify that the
applicants uh the
biders um all
produce a competent bid but when you do
a bid opening the state provides you a
checklist and basically you go down and
ensure that everything that's on the
checklist is submitted and whenever
there's something that's that's in the
public notice and that's not submitted
the bid is rejected understood no I I
the way you were you wrote it I was it
just appeared that CI Maguire was doing
the
entire process so that's okay close
Jensen was the overseers of the bid
right and and I mean I I'm I'm doing the
bid opening with close Jensen and Miller
and the do you know so it's not like I'm
not in the room we're all in agreement
on it it's just it's an annoyance to me
that the companies couldn't read
you know the notice of record and comply
in a reasonable fashion okay all right
no problem you can keep it going yep uh
so those are the major things that I
have um in this meeting and I'll
certainly take any questions that you
all have relative to my report tree
removal for bunka Hill is scheduled and
and is there's no hiccups on
that um
it's in progress
okay all right I'll let you settle that
up later anybody else have any questions
for Eric yeah just one quick question
Eric um regarding the Long Hill bridge
design we're engaged with the state
right for a temporary light at hendy and
Route Six or is that kind of off the
table at this
point um it's not off the table but
every time they look at it they tell us
the traffic warrants don't warrant a
signal at that intersection so at the
end of the day I don't think they're
going to do it I mean even on a
temporary basis during the Long Hill
Construction because all that traffic is
gonna get funneled on to Hy and then
would the C actually with the camp
reopening we're gonna have an enormous
amount of traffic at that intersection
I've made that point multiple times but
okay so do I think it's G to
happen probably not
that's going to be a problem so no
question no question how do we uh how do
we approach this I mean is there
anything any other avenues we can pursue
to try to get at least a temporary light
there I mean your only your only real
Avenue if the do box you know is to go
after it
legislatively um and get MD Ramen um um
and Steve we to to try to intercede on
the town's behalf um you know they
can they can make inquiries through the
do's legislative liazon and maybe put a
little pressure on them um and I
certainly intend to do that but at this
point they haven't the do hasn't said
they're not doing it yet so I'm kind of
not wanting to push that button until
they actually come out and say they're
not going to do it um and what I would
really like to do is get them to agree
to a permanent light there not just a
temporary light um but you know I don't
know I mean the reality is a temporary
light wouldn't uh decrease the accident
rate there but it probably would um you
know make traffic flow from that area uh
better agreed I just want I just want to
keep uh keep some attention on that
issue to make sure that we um follow up
on that down the road so hey I have a
vested interest because that's GNA be my
commute every day um the whole time the
bridges under construction so mean all
those left turns out of there is going
to be it's gonna be difficult without a
light there I can tell you that right
now do needs a deadline please please
please get a dead I know they don't
believe in deadlines and they won't
listen to Little Old Landover giving
them a deadline but if we're going to
get a legislative issue to to
potentially solve this we're going to
need some
time yeah because one thing I've noticed
in the last six months is the amount of
people returning to work and the amount
of traffic on Route Six is is
significantly increased and even the
traffic on 384 is increased in the
morning so we really need to keep a an
eye on this make sure that we have
something there in place when we take
that bridge out
and Eric just so the public is aware I
believe the last time that we sat there
and submitted this to the dot and they
rejected us they said there were no
fatalities at that location wasn't that
one of the points they made no I mean
basically what they say is it's only at
crisis for about two and a half hours a
day so there's this thing called level
of service which is the time it takes to
get through an
intersection um and the they go back to
the the crog you know study which was
the only serious traffic engineering
study at that intersection and what that
study showed is that for about an hour
and a half in the morning and an hour
and a half in the evening that
intersection has a level of service of
an F basically it's a scale that runs a
through f um and their argument is that
since the majority of the day the level
of service is in an acceptable range
that they're not going to put a light on
something for only that short a period
of time so that's been the do's position
and that that's a standard that that
runs along with the federal you know
Transportation you know um
warrants
um
okay anything else for any other
questions yeah I have a question that
maybe you'll cover it later but under
Town Hall community room you had
sentenced I would like to consider
purchasing permanent furniture for the
room to make it a bit more professional
what do you mean
by permanent Furniture so here's the
problem we have is that you know we
we're talking about going back to
in-person
meetings and that works great if you can
leave your inperson system set up you
know you put the the owl meeting camera
you mount one on the wall you put one in
the center and you have a third
microphone that way you can hear things
you can see everybody um and it works
good for a hybrid meeting which is
in-person plus virtual
um you know the the problem comes in is
that because a bunch of groups are still
using it they come in and disconnect
everything and push it all aside you
know and then every meeting and group
that comes in and tries to use that then
takes up a half an hour of my time
reassembling everything and making the
system work again um and I don't
necessarily want to be coming back in
here at 7 because the Planning and
Zoning commission is meeting and needs
to set the room up for hybrid so my
suggestion is that since we have a
community center now oh sorry and I'll
stop sharing since we have a community
center and we're going we have
essentially an equivalent room there
that we leave we do what most towns are
and and have a permanent dedicated
meeting room in that space and set it up
to look fairly professional um that
would be my my recommendation certainly
this is the only Town Hall I've gone to
that doesn't have any kind of permanent
meeting space for the town
yeah this is something I agree with Eric
on I think we need to make that room a
dedicated meeting space for all our
organizations like the board of Finance
planning and zoning and you know other
committees and commissions that have
meetings every other town has one and we
really don't we're we're kind of meeting
on temporary tables and it would make
sense probably doing something permanent
in the future if we're going to do
hybrid meetings
other small towns often have to shift
stuff around like we do but I know the
larger towns all have permanent
stuff well that's a good
thought any other questions for
Eric okay item nine old
business uh 9A community Center signage
discussion so we left that off a couple
months ago I know you wanted some input
on what the sign was going to look like
for the center of the the community
center um has any more progress been
made on
that obviously
not um who was gonna do it I think Paulo
I think Paulo was involved right before
she resigned and I think that's why it
kind of fell off the
radar be
honest right I'll I'll sit there I'll
sit there and get some layouts for you
guys I'll do that well you know what let
me let me talk to Paula and see what she
has that she had at the time and maybe
we can pick up from where she left off
all right we can do that um a discussion
uh a 9B discussion of blight and level
of
involvement uh I'm just keeping that on
the uh the agenda for visibility I don't
have anything really particular to
discuss about that right now other than
to say you know we're going to be slowly
transitioning to a new blight officer uh
and a new
Zoo well I don't mind that you just keep
it there but I did like the report that
was provided monthly I do think that's
beneficial even if it's even if it's not
updated what it does is just make us
aware of these are the potential
locations and we can all understand it
so sure
back the report yeah
okay um item 9C King property agreement
agreement to split cost of establishing
monumentation okay so I'll I'll take
that one too so we had uh as we all know
we went to town meeting and the town
meeting approved the the setting the
boundary between the king Pro property
and the town property and
the uh and carving out the area right by
burnap Brook in the parking area to be
Town property um the the problem came in
is that that they've never pinned that
so there are actually no boundary
monumentation for that um and Mr King
did not feel like it was solely His
responsibility uh to pin that um so my
suggestion is that we split the cost of
monumentation with Mr King Mr King has
agreed to that um and we get the the
surveyor out there to pin it right now
and then finish the transaction and put
this thing to bed that's my suggestion
um but I don't know how the board feels
about uh about that
approach what's the town's cost
deric uh about 1,200 bucks
I let's get it done I I I I make a
motion that we authorize Eric to uh
enter into agreement to split the cost
for establishing a monumentation on the
king property with the King
family I'll
second okay I we'll give it to
Scott um all those in favor
four nothing okay um okay done deal n d
burnac clock discussion um before we get
into this and before we even talk about
this if we decide to sit there and take
the current community room and make it a
um a meeting meeting room the clock
might fit
there I I all this discussion about the
clock drives me insane because I don't
know where to put it I no one knows
where to put it it's a beautiful antique
we're we're going to be storing it for
the owner we're going to be paying
insurance for the owner if you sit there
and we decide as a board to sit there
and make the community room a meeting
room then you may have a spot for the
clock where it will it will be visible
to the community during meetings and may
make some sense but other than that
honestly it just keeps coming up on our
meetings and we keep kicking it down the
road and we're going to just keep
kicking it because
uh it's it's a difficult it's a
difficult play it's difficult to put it
in the right spot but I'm just throwing
that out there now and we don't have
anything else on the agenda related to
this that's just being held over because
we never make a decision on it well at
the last meeting you asked me to confirm
with the insurance company with kerma
that there was minimal or zero I had
said it would not cost us anything to
have the cut the clock on the property
and they confirmed that that fits under
both their Fine Art
Clause um and there's one other clause
in our contract so they will in fact
ensure that uh for the value provided
and I gave them the appraisal value um
if you make the decision to put that
either in the community center or
wherever you want want to put that so
that was the only thing I had to
contribute to the
discussion um that was brought up at the
community center Advisory Board um there
was some discussion um or correction the
senior center Advisory Board um there
was some discussion over that but
ultimately I'm not sure they ever
reached a conclusion some people were in
favor of it and some people weren't so
that's all I have okay but no cost to
the town if we if we house the
antique no no insurance cost insurance
yeah
correct Jeff Jeff I like your idea of
putting it in the the meeting space I
think that might be the good compromise
going forward I mean if we do it and we
display it correctly it'll be nice
addition to a de that you could set up
well one concern I have is that down the
road in the community center there's
going to be events and all kinds I mean
we don't
know who's goingon to be in there I mean
we we're going to know but I mean
there'll be maybe some wedding parties
and things like that and you know I'd
hate to see it get damaged and it would
probably be a safer spot to put it in
the the meeting space
I agree it's something that we should
think
about I spoke with uh Jeff Ballard and
the owner of the clock he came too and
they had chosen a space in that smaller
room that has the couches in it
currently um the concern was to not have
it where it would get the heat and air
conditioning from the mini
split and that's why they picked that
one
um and then I've also had contacted
Dennis and asked him to get in touch
with the owner I gave him all contact
information and asked him to set up a
contract because the owner does want to
have a contract with the town on the
care of or the possession of the clock
so I gave all that information to Dennis
I don't know if he's done anything about
it yet um I would hope attorney O'Brien
didn't because until we understand
exactly where we're putting it there's
no reason to waste his time so good that
he has the information
but I wouldn't then I mean we've been
kicking this around for almost why don't
we vote on it then I thought it had been
decided where to put it I thought that
Ann's Ann's room that she had picked
with uh Jeff Ballard and
the is where we're going to put it so
previously in the senior and know let's
just go through it we we the meeting
room in in I don't know what the room is
called it's the little one with the
couches in it is that the meeting room
meeting room right but that also
implies going to take the bookshelf and
do something else with the bookshelf so
where are you where are you proposing to
relocate the bookshelf if
you're since we' kicked this down the
road a long time let's kick it down the
road again because I I I honestly think
that we really if we're going to sit
there and
furnish the meeting room it will go best
there because Jeff Murray is 100%
correct that that space will be rented
and we we will not always have
supervision there and I would hate to
sit there and see an antique like clock
like that um I I mean until we until we
sit there and have our own meetings
space you can't even you can at least
lock up the meeting space because if we
sat there and did it now the only
question I have in my head is is that
space need to be used for anything else
but if it only is used for meetings
which I think it's a great use of that
space you then get to control access to
the room so I think there's other things
that need to be done I don't think
anyone is I don't think we've had total
agreement on the senior center and
community room location
so let's just push it down the road one
one more time and and the Board needs to
come to an agreement on what we want to
do as far as a meeting space and if we
do come together on a meeting space that
would be my preferred location for that
clock so just to add to this Eric do you
have any kind of concept or a drawing or
anything that you you're thinking of for
a layout in that room for
meetings no I mean I think I
know I mean I I think the orientation
is going to
follow uh based off of where the screen
is and where I would assume we would
permanently Mount the owl meeting camera
but so I would have assumed you would be
looking at a u shaped uh you know
seating area around there and then the
audience would be behind that that would
be what I would have assumed that way
everybody can see if there's other
participants up on the screen um and you
have remote participation so that's how
I would have envisioned that you know in
a meeting space to take the largest
essentially commission we have which is
around seven members so something
designed to seat seven um and then with
a little platform at the end for
somebody that wants to come up and speak
so my thought is let's let's let's kind
of come up with a plan for that room and
then where we would put the clock in
that room and then let's look at an's
where where her and Jeff Ballard and the
owner to talk about the other location
and then we can discuss it next month
and just make a
decision does that sound fair to
everyone yes we can make the decision
next month yes but I just look at the
two let's look at the two options and
then we'll
decide okay um uh ninee solar at uh
Andover Elementary School okay again at
the last meeting you asked me to find
out to the best of my abilities what the
ages of the roofs were in the Andover
elementary school so I put from you the
packet everything we have in the
building files plus a sketch that I got
from the school which says what ages
they think uh the roofs are um so that's
pretty much all the
information that I have I can certainly
share that now if you want to look at it
it was in your packet I can bring that
up if you want to see
that all of them were done in 2016
correct except for one small small roof
some was
2004 200000 and 2016 I think no but you
got to look at where the their solar
panels were going to be put so Eric do
you have the solar panel layout
uh would have been in last month's
meeting but it was going to be in not in
I I can pull that up too it was going to
not be on roof a which was the one on
the gymnasium but it was going to be on
what this looks like at at roof B roof C
roof F and roof I were the roofs that
were identified for that which is
basically all the large flat roofs
all right let me pull it up on my end
you want me to just share
it yeah that would be better you can
yep okay can you see it
now
yeah so they don't want to use roof a
because
gymnasiums tend to not be designed with
the roof loading that can support
additional weight so they ruled that out
right off the bat for structural reasons
and they were suggesting basically b c f
and I as the major
roofs as far as I
know okay but again can we sit there and
see the solar layout so we can match
those up or it doesn't even
matter if if they're going to put it on
I and I is a 2004
roof we should consider not putting it
on I or we should consider thinking
about Roofing that so that when we put
the solar up there we don't have future
problems because the 2016 roofs don't
bother me but in my head those 2016
roofs I don't think we did all
that I mean that I tried to read I tried
to read through the clerk of the works
report and match
up um you know but I didn't have all the
I only have a partial report from them
so I just don't have the information in
the building files to really get this so
I don't have a
great
uh okay all right and I'm gonna
um just because you know you find
problems as you're working through it
Eric all the links there the link for
the the October meeting does not not
contain the October packet it contains
the November packet so the link is the
same link across all of our calendar
things we have to address that because
the packet should remain with the
calendar
link just because I was looking because
in October we have the solar layout you
put in the October packet so I can't
pull up the October P packet even going
on the October date so that's something
that we have to look at from the website
perspective um but but Eric do you have
the layout for the solar yeah let me
pull that
up uh I just got to find it where where
it is in all my
files and and this you know this is just
pushing back to
understand here we go
okay so you should be able to see that
layout I can't show them both at the
same time no that's all right just
increase the size of
that okay
so so you have that small part of the
roof and you have the whole part of the
roof to the right so if you circled am
mer it would be the the part of the roof
that's all the way to the
right M and there's a small little
section and I
believe that might be over the kitchen
and I think I do remember that we
couldn't roof we couldn't do something
all we the previously when we roofed
that they didn't want to do anything
over the kitchen but a Adrien mandaville
might be a good person to talk to on
this Eric because he was extremely
involved in this project he he he
assisted greatly from the board of
Finance position that he was in at the
time
um so we have two sections that are on
potentially areas of the roof that are
2004 you can go to that one now go go to
that
page so you got
2000 and 2004 for the those two 200 24
yeah so it's not that it's not it's not
that it's a problem we want to do this
we should want to do this we just want
to make sure that we're not having a
roof problem that that comes up to us
and we have to move those units off the
roof to then
re-roof yeah yeah I mean we only got
about 10 more years on roof I right now
before it's I mean you look at the
replacement schedule on all the other
roofs you're looking at 30 years yeah
yeah yeah um just I was talking to
Valerie and she said that that roof I is
a different kind of a roof it's sort of
a gravel surface it's completely
different from the other roofs so maybe
that kind of roof lasts longer I don't
know for sure sure but it
might so I I'm pretty sure that roof is
a hot mopped car roof with Stone Those
typically have a 25 to 35 year life
they're all the they're they're all the
same the question ends up being and
and it's positive in that it's they the
smaller sections of the roof but we just
need to do the D due diligence to make
sure that we don't get in a position
where we're having to lift those panels
off that roof to re roof and it eats
away at all the savings that the school
would be generating so and the other
part too Eric is to get with them and
make sure that we understand from the
Solar Company okay these are the two
oldest roofs what what will happen if
what would be the cost if we only needed
to re roof these two
sections
so anyway that's okay so what
information so you're not going to make
a decision now what
information do you want me to try to
provide for the next
meeting just because we just identified
the age of the
roofs get us a an estimate of of what
the cost would be if we have to move
those panels from those roofs to get to
the roof surface so because we have to
re-roof it it's just a a question of can
it hold up and you know like Jeff Murray
said there's a if if we look at the way
they did it it was a 30-year period on
all those other roofs and we ended up
re-roofing eventually we're going to
have to re-roof e i uh F
and you know I know those are pitched
Roes and shingled but eventually we'll
have to re-roof those as well at some
point in time so so Jeff what my concern
is roof I if you look it back if if Eric
can bring up the the solar plan again
real
quick if you look at where they say
interconnection Point all the wiring for
those panels are going to go across that
roof
ey so that's going to be a problem down
the rug because if you have to re-roof
that roof I don't know how much we're
going to have to interrupt all those
conduits and everything that's run
across that roof to that interconnection
point you have a lot of solar panels and
a lot of power going across to that spot
so that's just something we need to to
to to voice our concerns
about that's that's the reason why it's
good to have an electrical engineer on
the board because he understands those
things so you know you see like all
those panels on the left are all going
to run across to that interconnection
point all those all that all that stuff
so if the interconnection point was on
the west side of the building that
wouldn't be his concern but and I know
why they're putting them on eye because
of that interconnection point and it's
on the way so we made made we need to
make the decision if we want to do this
and you want to put the panels on roof
ey do we move ahead and try to re to to
replace that roof ahead of time or do we
you know move ahead with this project
and most likely you're going to be
pulling those panels in 10 years so the
the recommendation should be to re-roof
those two
roof before they do panels or you move
your interconnection point so you don't
have all your power wireing going across
roof
I well it's also a timing issue is that
where there's other panels are down in
that building on in the cell there
though I think that's where all their
connections are yeah but that's where
they're going to put all the so
basically what these are they're DC
panels and it basically converts DC to
AC and it matches the phasing to the the
power so there there's inverters that go
on that they're going to probably be on
that wall right there where they're
saying interconnection point so all that
wiring all that DC wiring is going to go
across the roof to those inverters well
not actually be DC wiring this system is
designed with micro inverters one per
panel so you're still going to have AC
going across the roof correct
yep okay so I didn't know if it was a DC
to AC system or if it was a completely
rectified and inverted that's got to be
a little expensive trying to trying to
match the I'm going to get an
engineering speak now but trying to
match your phasing on the roof to all
those panels is going to be seems more
expensive than putting
large inverters on the walls on the on
that interconnection point so I
know the the problem they ran into Jeff
on This is that you know on the
commercial side when you look at fairly
large arrays all the big inverters are
three-phase inverters correct correct
and because there's no three-phase power
here they would have had to have you
know probably 20 or
25 um
inverters you know to do it if they
didn't go the microinverter rout so
their engineer basically said the only
way you can make this work you know cost
effectively um and fit in the state
program is to do it with
microinverters the thing I'll warn you
is that they're pretty
close talking to Green Skies this is
pretty close to being a non-profitable
job for them
so you know I I think
they're they're not going to go through
a lot more
Hoops before they drop this as a
proposal um you know right or wrong and
I'm not you know I'm just because they
had to downsize the system considerably
from what they wanted because it's only
uh single phase and they had to go to
the
microinverters you know he basically Al
said it's already a very marginally
profitable job for us to install anyway
given what the reimbursement rates are
for the state so I don't think they're
going to take a lot of other
changes um before they say no um yeah
and I agree with you like trying to pull
all those singlephase conductors across
that roof is going to be a it's gonna be
a costly
Endeavor so let's just give um let's
just Eric and Jeff you know let's sit
there and and get to the the Board of
Education any information and any
guidance we can to sit there and make
this decision the correct decision
because I would hate to sit there and
see us say okay you can go do it and
then we end up having a roof problem in
two or three years and it you know
whatever like I said before whatever
savings we have is gone because we have
to now move the panels to replace roofs
so well another thing Jeff is if we got
to pull all those conductors off the
roof we're going to we use the we're
going to lose the use of those panels
for that period of time plus you're
going to have to pay to replace all that
wiring you have to take it out and
replace it when we re roof so and I
guarantee they're probably GNA they're
probably going to rest it right on top
of the roof so it's going to have to be
lifted at some point or completely
removed and we replace the
roof okay um so would we go ahead and uh
find out what it would cost to get these
roofs redone right now to
no the Board of Education actually has
some of that information you know let
the Board of Education know that that's
what they should
do well I will um we will speak to them
I'll speak to Celeste and we'll sit
there and you know express our concerns
that those two roofs are are 2000 2204 I
believe right
um yeah 2 2004 and we'll sit there and
I mean if they could move that
interconnection point to another
location I wouldn't be as concerned but
I'm just saying all the wiring is going
to go
across understood yeah I mean the the
problem comes down is if you think about
conduit
runs um the wall they're bringing it
down is basically the wall where their
main electrical interconnect for the
building is so it certainly makes an the
most sense in terms of that um could you
go down the close wall and punch a large
conduit through the classro across the
the uh hallway into the mechanical room
potentially um it's GNA cost more though
yeah and it's probably gonna eat into
just I mean you got 10 years of life
pretty much left on that roof anyways
and really what's your cost savings down
the road versus replacing the roof and
just putting the solar in after
so okay so Jeff you're gonna talk to
Celeste about that I'll talk to celest I
mean we need to make uh this needs to be
decided quickly because it's a it's a
granted project which we I mean we would
obviously like to sit there and see move
forward but we got to do it correctly so
I will speak with Celeste and then uh
Jeff Murray any guidance you can give
them would be
appreciated right and for the record I
don't have
the they have not come up with the final
engineered set of plans for doing
this anyway um so there's no final
layout at this point there's nothing
that says what the structural roof loads
are for any of those roofs so um they're
not ready to you know to fully present
this
anyway um
okay so we should make them aware so if
they're engineering it they can sit
there and engineer some of the problems
that Jeff Murray is
identified yeah I'd definitely like to
see the conduit schedule and the pull
drawings like what we're pulling for
conductors and you know conduit size and
everything to see what the impact on
roof ey would
be so is this information that you would
need be them to get a permit to go ahead
and put it
in absolutely they
okay yeah they would they would they're
going to give you a a standard set of
engineering drawings for both electrical
structural for all the roofs um
including conduit layouts Dimensions
yeah wire sizes inverter capacity tie in
um and What needs to change so they'll
give you that give that to the building
official to get their building permit I
don't see too much of what else we need
to do
well the board is the building owner
right the town owns the building this is
clearly a capital
project so you as a board need to say
yay or nay whether you want this to
happen or not
um what does that no actually
not um and you can think of it this way
and this is something that I'm going to
speak to the Board of Education tomorrow
about the anything that's in the
building or attached to the building is
part of the building anything that's
inside the building and movable no
problem the town owns the structure the
Board of Education manages the structure
your own attorney said that to us in the
last tri board meeting so we're not
trying to be difficult and I understand
where your focus is I do understand
where your focus is but we're not trying
to be difficult we're trying to be
assistance to make the project correct
so however you want to sit there and and
believe that and believe what you're
you're you're dealing with the building
the structure is owned by the
town
okay so do we have any other issues on
the solar project with
as okay uh item a 9f signage
encroachment permit for signage signs on
Route Six so okay again at the last
meeting uh you asked me for a copy of
what the exact sign that they would be
putting on Route 6 identifying where the
trail location was and I Pro provided
you with what the D and do will agree to
put up for the sign okay so they're
putting this hoop River State Park trail
off of Route Six on correct going toward
Lake Road to where the parking is
correct
okay all right do you have any problem
with the an encroachment permit for that
and putting that
sign I don't know I don't have a problem
with it I live on Lake Road but but I
don't have a problem with it anybody
else have a problem with it
no okay and Jeff Murray anybody no
problems with it we can go forward with
the
permit
okay all right
um
9g uh new business discuss and act upon
the following a credit card usage uh
discussion approve policy and
forms um
Eric related to uh the comments by
carolly and the rec commission um I do
believe we need to address that from a
standpoint of um budgeting and I I
I'm I I understand what they're saying
forget the credit card usage policy
right sure y the recommission doesn't
need to use the credit card if if that's
the choice but the issue of who approves
their spending is really their issue and
I think what you meant and I think what
you meant is to just have Tess assist
with the bookkeeping related to
it so when Tess was hired Tess was hired
to oversee three things Community Center
Senior Center and all recreational
activities for the town now now the rec
commission doesn't like that but
remember two years ago you as a board or
in the last budget attempted to put in
money to hire somebody to assist to make
sure things were done well and the rec
commission opposed that to the board of
Finance um and got the board of Finance
to take that out of the budget and
repurpose that money for something that
the recre commission wanted to do um and
so when we talked about
this uh six months or a year ago when we
were talking about what the duties of if
we hired a per a director for that
position what they would oversee the
decision was to have them oversee those
three things that is not popular with
the rec commission um so so you're
telling us that people are not working
well together is what you're telling
sure change is always hard um in in my
head I don't care whether you leave the
wreck commission as a commission in
charge or whether you put that on tesses
to maintain overall responsibility for
that but whichever way you do it's going
to have to be directed by the board
because the rec commission is not going
to um you know they're not going to play
with any anybody unless they're forced
to um if we're being blunt okay so I
don't need you to be blunt in the future
um I I need you to just be facts facts
so okay so we're gonna we're gonna deal
with this
um well Jee my understanding was I mean
we had a senior services committee we
had the recommission and Tess was
supposed
to basically take Direction from them
and that was our original discussion
she's supposed to work with them yeah
she's supposed to so if if the
recommission wants to have a concert or
an event she's supposed to assist and
help them with that
event but under their Direction I I I
agree with that but I don't necessarily
know that Tess is sitting there telling
them what to do they're not are they
dealing with Tess at all is really the
questions and this is not something that
needs to be debated at this meeting it
needs to be understood because to
me I look at Tess and I go you as an
employee you better be utilizing her
because yes I greatly appreciate all the
volunteers on the recommission I
appreciate every volunteer that works
for this town and a lot most a lot of
what gets done within this town gets
done by volunteers but we're trying to
put a person in place to sit there and
manage certain things and assist with
certain things we need to be using that
person so right but I would also say say
that in
retrospect hiring Tess as a part-time
employee and expecting you to do all
three probably is not realistic either
okay and and
and the whole point from my end for that
individual and being part-time would be
to generate
Revenue over programs and run more
programs and provide more programs and
utilize the the community Senior Center
more often to generate additional
programming revenue and the rec
commission has to be a big part of that
so because they have the experience and
things to do so um uh this is a
management issue that we have to just
make we have to work together to get
people to uh enjoy working together
rather than creating any problems
so we all should sit there and
participate in that uh and and work on
that issue so
um
but going to the money right going to
the
money I don't I agree I agree with Rec
Commission because they have a budget
and unless we choose to not give them a
budget they have a budget to control
they don't need to use a credit card
right then it then you could simply just
say that take the rec commission off the
the designated supervisor's list um you
know and then I'm the only signer on
their expenses if you want to do that
you can certainly do that isn't that how
we do it
now not really I mean the old system was
set up so that boards and department
heads could make their own
expenditures but
the
treasur has been very unhappy about the
information she's gotten back in a lot
of cases regarding credit card
expenditures okay so take credit cards
off of the
table why can't the rec commission
potentially utilize uh you know an
Amazon account and pay for that account
by
check they could certainly order stuff
through the town's Amazon account
anytime they want they're not restricted
from just just from a simple standpoint
I understand putting them in in controls
on the credit cards
but why wouldn't you let someone you
know from the recommission use the
credit
card we would absolutely let somebody
use the credit card they just have to
get the expense signed off before they
use it not afterward because then you
know you're getting the paperwork turned
in and I'm not trying to pick on the wck
commission this policy goes for
everybody including me um you know and I
will admit to some extent you know I
haven't always submitted the form ahead
of a purchase I made as the Town
Administrator and that's what's got the
the treasure kind of wound up because
not everybody is turning in receipts and
they're spending a lot of time tracking
down information and balancing the
credit cards when we get the monthly
statements so that's the whole point of
this is just to put in place a
policy that has the proper
Administration and we were more lenient
with the old policy but the fact of the
matter is you know not enough people are
complying with that policy and the
financial office is not getting what
they
need so that's what this is an attempt
to correct okay so so you have you have
policy set up
um all right I will sit there and um I
will get with you Eric and and work on
this policy so that we can come back and
and present it I'll work with the town
with the treasurer to sit there and make
sure that it's as simplified as it
possibly can be because you know credit
card usage is is an ease and in
convenience so we have to make sure that
we're not over regulating what's going
on but we have to make I understand what
the treasurer is after we have to make
sure that that's effective and that they
get their information timely
because you know as a as an as an
accounting department they don't want to
be chasing things down they want to know
where it's going and what it's for so
unless anybody else on this board has an
issue with that that's how I'd like to
move forward well Jeff I've had a couple
discussions with Eric about this and you
know we we should probably identify the
three or four top Heavy Hitters that are
users of that credit card and you know
like Public Works should probably almost
have their own and a couple other
departments have their own it'd be much
easier to break out the charges if we
have the charges just attached to that
one number so the treasurer can say look
this is the Public Works number these
are all Public Works charges instead of
trying to figure out at the the end of
the statement who bought what and for
what and keeping all these slips and
trying to backtrack everything I think
it may be more um advantageous just to
to look at who our Heavy Hitters are and
just try to give them their own cards
for you know like three or four
departments and anything that's smaller
just goes through Eric or you know our
our slip
policy I think that makes some sense
we'll sit there and look at that okay
thank you I know I when Eric sent out
this new proposed thing I sent back an
email to him and said what the old one
look like because I didn't know I wasn't
here five years ago when when this
original one was put out and it doesn't
look like there's a huge amount of
difference it looks like they the
signature from the supervisor and
administrator and getting your
documentation back in one day was the
only two
changes is that right Eric that is
pretty much
correct yep
um so I don't know what the three days
hadn't been working was that that's
obviously that's obviously happens Eric
Eric that's obviously the case an
because the treasurer is asking for
changes so she asked for this to be
changed yes it's it's coming from the
treasur you know so we got to sit there
and deal with that department because
they're in control of of our
recordkeeping and how it happens so
let's sit there and I I like Jeff
Murray's idea honest you know I think
it's a great idea I think it's
simplistic it makes sense I mean Jay's
the supervisor of Public Works we should
give him the responsibility to to make
appropriate charges to the card and then
it that that it's that it's Jay's
responsibility to reconcile his card
well the card will come in and it will
be charged to Public Works to their no
it'll be charged to public works but he
may have 20 charges on that account and
he's got to break them down by where
they go and so now it's taking it off of
the accounting department to reconcile
the charges and put it on Jay he still
may need we still may need
some I will let me deal with on it Jeff
Murray I think that's a good idea I I do
I mean just another thing we should do
is we have all these recurring charges
on the card we should probably look into
either doing uh getting a separate
account Town account just for these
reoccurring payments you know keep a
balance of $5,000 instead of our main
account and we pay those you know with
either direct deposit or direct
withdrawal out of those accounts instead
of trying to use the credit card because
it's a huge money suck every month on on
credit card balance so that's another
thing we should probably look at doing
as
well okay we'll sit there and we'll look
at all of those issues okay well can you
talk to the treasurer tomorrow because
she's anticipating this being
implemented tomorrow so I think she's
going to be a little pissed so you might
want to speak with her no problem I'll
be happy to do it Eric um all right
let's move on to uh so and just to be
clear so now boards and commissions can
spend whatever they want and borrow the
credit card whenever they want as long
as they comply with Eric Eric you are in
control of the cards
right not according to the old policy
yeah are you in control of the cards
today they're in my pocket so yes there
you go Eric so we're all good right you
keep the cards in your pocket until we
get a resolution and it'll make the
treasurer happy is that good okay fair
enough all right all right thank you all
right uh nine
GB uh schedule a joint meeting of board
of Selectmen Board of Finance Board of
Education to discuss budget priorities
for the upcoming year so
um this
is this is part of the charter revision
we'll sit there and get this done
December 3D um will probably be a you
know let's let's all come up with dates
for that because I Kaitlyn um has um uh
is looking to spearhead that
meeting and it's going to be a joint
combination it's going to be this joint
budget meeting but it's also going to be
the tri board meeting that we had in
last year or the year before and we
haven't had since so this was something
that we should do just to get everybody
together and talk over uh the issues
that we continue to have as to our
current relationships as to how they
they deal with the board of Selectmen
and the and the Board of Education and
the board of Finance so Jeff do we T
them we want to schedule that for
December 3D you want to just make a
motion now well don't I would think you
would probably make a motion to
recommend to the board of Finance
because technically they're the ones
that should be seeking input from the
other two boards regarding the budget
okay but if we're comfortable with the
third if everybody here is comfortable
with the third should we just put that
forward to to the board of Finance
saying that's that date's okay with
us because their meeting is coming up
correct that's fine let's make the
motion on the
20th so let's get that we can get that
to them and then that way they can talk
to the board head and put the meeting
together December 3rd is fine for
me Scott and fine for me fine for
me okay so Jeff you want to make that
motion yeah I'll make a motion that we
suggest December 3rd is the meeting date
for the tribe was it tribe board meeting
yeah that's
good to the board of
Finance I'll second that all those in
favor
I okay four nothing
um GC update on Bridge construction you
already gave us that yep we can ignore
that GD uh agreement on Fire Marshall
Mutual Aid that was in your
package so this is
basically uh this has been a discussion
that's been going on between Andover
Bolton and Columbia regarding basically
just Mutual Aid and mutual support for
the fire marshal in case something
really big happens where we need
multiple Fire Marshals to do an
investigation not something that's
likely to be invoked very often doesn't
cost us any money um it just says we all
authorized to act as Fire Marshals in
those three towns um if something
happens so I would suggest that we uh
authorize me to sign that and move on I
think Colombia has already signed it I
don't know that Bolton has
already all right I make a motion that
we authorize Eric to sign the agreement
for Fire Marshall Mutual Aid
an got that
one yeah all those in favor
I four four nothing
Eric okay thank you
um I
ge ge Community Setter update discussion
on uh
cellular shades for the community center
I'm just gonna we're just going to go
through all these sound deadening
materials for the community center s
dney materials for the town hall
community room and we'll go from there
so those are
uh the shades for the community center I
I saw your quote and what you're quoting
for the community center and do you have
a
uh where are we pulling this money from
let's talk about that where where would
you would recommend pulling money what
fund so I would take that right from the
multi-use building fund which we
intended the money we have aligned for
doing the community center
renting okay and you did not like the
use of that
fund I just it just seems like it's a
lot of different things coming from that
fund I didn't know is that what the
fund's designed
for yes well we had identified we were
going to spend at least 150,000 from
that fund to finish off the building so
I think taking it from that fund is
appropriate
okay um so Eric you're talking cellular
shades you're talking about the
insulating
type uh yeah they're a little insulating
I don't think they're that insulating
but yes okay because they have like a
double and a triple insulated cellular
shade that you can buy that really boost
our value of the windows
so I don't know if that's what you had
envisioned no just a just the two- layer
the standard cellular shade the the
problem is when we start asking for fire
rated assemblies it really knocks down
our choices on a lot of these things um
I did ask because I don't pick colors
and I don't pick designs for stuff like
that so I asked Kathy
dooa um and then Diane chette once we
had the uh info from two of the the
blinds companies to come in and pick
designs and colors for the community
center both for that as well as for the
sound deadening
materials um you know and that's
essentially what what they chose um you
know we had a series of different
options um
the yeah so the shades are sound
deadening and shades they're going to be
a little bit sound deadening they're not
going to be we're not relying on the
shades to be the major sound deadening
elements because as soon as you put the
shades up they're essentially useless
for sound
deadening
okay so we're relying room room
darkening they're they're designed to be
room darkening um anesthe you can get
either or you can just either get a
standard cellular shading a room
darkening
shade um did you did you look at
measuring and trying to go to an online
like Steve's blinds or or another
company like that because I found in the
past that the prices are almost half of
what you deal with a local
contractor and then how do you install
all this stuff well Public Works has
been doing some of it haven't they or
even our even our handyman uh cleaner
has been doing some of this work
too correct
I'm just asking the question that's
all do we lose Jeff
an can you hear
me yes oh because it looks like we lost
Jeff we've lost you are now the
host oh
wow I don't know what happened we lost a
bunch of people
I see that I don't see uh Eric either
Eric yeah we lost Eric Eric froze I
asked him a question about the blinds
about going online for him and he froze
and we lost
so I know my life BL a tiny bit he he
got kicked off the internet so you may
be able to have you may have to let them
back in because since you're the host
now well let's see here I you do you
have a waiting room that you can go and
let him back
in is that under
participants
no I could try to call Eric real quick
and see what we need to do because he
was probably the host
see I don't see where I'm host nothing
changed on my well it said I just got a
thing that said you were host
oh let me check and see if I can get a
hold of Eric
follow Post Corner
oh
okay
um hey and it's Stephen King can you
hear
me yes you click on if you click on
participants at the bottom of your
screen the participants window should
show up and you should see anybody in a
waiting
room okay yes I see that all right thank
you you are
there was two people
there sorry I seem to have lost my
internet
house um I'm trying to rework some
things yeah I just talked to Eric Eric's
back in as the host I believe and um you
guys had a power outage real quick yeah
had a quick power outage at the town
yeah we lost a bunch of
people okay hold on for one second I'm G
to try to get back in the other
[Music]
way recording in
progress sorry
okay that's
better you gotta un mute Jeff
unmute you're
muted audio there you go you're back
video video okay there I
am okay one second
H that's interesting whatever kicked
whatever the connection was it except
because the town's on fiber so it
screwed up that connection as well as
whatever internet was on the lake which
is probably what
Comcast yes
yes okay
um so Eric you we were on the the
Shades and the sound ding materials so
we have various quotes have has dianat
and Kathy derer made it uh are they
recommending anything to us yeah the
options we had they preferred the sh
cellular
shades um essentially in just a white
color um that's pretty much it and then
the question is I asked them also to
quote it both ways to quote it either
with a uh you know essentially automatic
controllers or just opening them up
manually it's a couple thousand bucks
extra if you want to go to uh an
automated
controller and and did they pick do they
have a preference on one of
these
companies I mean because there are two
different types right the only ones that
had the if we're going with the cellular
shade Alpha Arrow was the only company
that we brought in that had the fire
rated cellular shades the other
companies had different options about
Roman Shades and other things um and we
talked about drapes versus Shades versus
you know and they both decided that
drapes would not be appropriate in that
facility um and they wanted something
compact that was inside the actual
window and that when it was all the way
rolled
up took up the minimum amount of the top
of the window which is why they thought
cellular shades was the best solution
for that okay so you're talking a
difference of 7,300
to
$5,000 correct
motorized I mean I think the motorized
was is cool but do I think it's $2,300
cool yes they don't make cordless just
the cordless ones without the cords
because that's the ones I have in my
home they're cordless and you just you
just pull them up and down and
they're right that's that's what we're
getting um that that's the the lower the
lesser of the two quotes are ones you
just they have a little pull tab on the
bottom you push them up you pull them
down that's what I have those should be
adequate those those would be adequate
how high are those
windows uh they're not so high that you
can't pull them down okay all right then
that's fine so do we want to make a
motion to go with the estimate 4967 from
alpha
Arrow
anybody
y I mean I'm assuming that's the one
Eric correct
correct um how many windows that two
things in here which one is
which oh I see one's a remote control
okay
the two from alpha Arrow those two
quotes really only differ as to whether
you have motorized or non-motorized okay
it's about a
$2200 Adder to motorize them all with a
single
controller okay so the 5,90 is the one
that was not
motorized correct cellular shades from
alpha Arrow so the motorized ones they
were either going to be all open or all
closed
uh no they can be opened or closed
individually but a single controller can
control the exact number of Windows we
have in the computer commuter room so
you can have them go all up and down
together or you can have individual ones
go up and down depending on what you
want to
do you you just get a remote program it
but my fear would be we'd lose the
remote or something to the remote and
then we can't put how many how many
remotes are we going to have to have in
or if we're going to use it when the
power goes out or if the power goes out
we need to open and close the blinds we
can't do it unless we have generator
going I guess no they're they're not
hardwired they're battery batter battery
operated one so which opens which opens
another can of worms like every
somebody's got to go up there and change
the batteries periodically and you know
so I think the manual ones will be fine
they're like just from that standpoint
they they probably have like 6D
batteries in those those Motors Jeff so
they last a long time but we'd lose the
remote
so the batteries are gonna die the
batteries corrode you know and it's just
it's just not a good all right longterm
solution
um I'll make a motion that we move
forward with Alpha era quote
4967 for
$5,900 for or shades for the senior
center Community
Center building to be taken out of the
multi-use building
fund
seconded right any further discussion
all those in favor I I okay uh Eric the
um sound
deadening okay
so the the the goal is basically to
provide enough sound deadening material
on the walls to get you below a certain
reverberation threshold because we all
know the the main Community Center room
is pretty bad um so and the other
problem we have is that we do have a
reflective surface in the floor because
it's not a carpeted floor so we will
have to have some panels on the ceiling
um so the acoustic engineer gave me
essentially
multiple multiple ways to do that this
is the most coste effective way that I
could find other than making the panels
ourselves which is use a mix of 1inch
thick and 2inch thick panels the 2inch
thick panel does a little bit better
dealing with bass uh or base rather than
onein panel um they're pretty close in
performance on higher frequencies the
2in works better on absorbing lower
frequency so the way this is set up is
uh a certain portion is on the ceiling
and the rest are on the walls um and
what I worked is just to make a kind of
symmetrical design so on the walls we're
putting all you know uh vertical tall
panels um and they will match pretty
closely what the paint is on the wall
now so the goal is to to not to contrast
as much as possible to make them blend
into the existing wall
surfaces
um so I had a conversation with William
Bell William said he's put these up
before for the town of Hein he's happy
to take that on as a project um for the
community center um it's fairly
expensive to ship this stuff um because
it's coming up from Virginia um so my
suggestion is if we can do it um we
order the materials for both the
community
center um and the community room at the
same
time that's an ungodly amount of
shipping I mean how many pallets are we
talking we can't be talking that many
pallets
well remember fairly big because these a
lot of these panels we're purchasing are
10 feet
long um you know so it's coming up from
Virginia via
Freight
okay can you get the tax off of there at
least yeah yeah
[Music]
yeah and is this going to do it have you
run this by Kathy and uh Diane regarded
the Aesthetics of that room yes yes
we've had extensive conversations about
both rooms um and you know then and they
picked uh the fabric I gave them about a
100 choices in fabric color and they
picked both the wall and ceiling fabric
for that room as well as the community
room in the town
hall I'm looking at the pictures in your
packet and one some are like an
off-white and then there's one that's
like a blue gray where's that one going
so the blue gray is going on the
community room in the town hall on the
blue
wall behind the projector screen mounted
up high over the
screen okay
great now in the community
so the community center the community
room in the town hall because of the
layout of that room um that has things
going for it and things going against it
what it has going forward it for it is
at least it's a carpeted
floor um so the acoustic engineer thinks
we can get away with it's less than
ideal but we can get away with putting
no panels on the ceiling in that room
and have all wallmounted pan panels on
that room um this doesn't get us to the
kind of Ideal number
acoustically um but you know without
making the you know the the walls a real
jigsaw puzzle with lots of other little
pieces fit in wherever they could fit to
get a clean layout that's that's
basically how many panels we can fit on
the wall which equates to about 70% of
the ideal amount of sound absorption
material um if we have to we can fit
additional panels on the ceiling um you
know at a later date but what I would
say is that's an expensive enough
project let's try to do it with 70% of
the material um and you know see if it's
good enough and if it really is still
needs additional then then we'll go down
that roof but I don't want to put
anything on the ceiling there the wood
ceilings if I don't have
to so the quote that you have here
there's one for
$5,400 and then there's another one for
$8,700 which which is which and what are
they for so so the community
room is the $5,000
quote but that is assuming that we buy
them both at the same time
and all the shipping it didn't make
sense to you know if we're going to pay
for shipping we ought to ship everything
at once so all the shipping is added to
the other quote for both setups they're
sprayed on both the quotes they're
sprayed on both
yeah it's the exact same
freay so let's let's put Freight aside
you're saying it would be
$6,890 to do the community senior Senior
Center and Town Hall community room and
the community room would be
$3,800
correct okay correct the way it's listed
here right I did not look at that
carefully and is correct so can we
um yeah I think all that the freight was
not supposed to be on the one for the
community center I think that Freight
number covered both um that that makes
it it's extremely odd to me I would
think that there's more I mean I I
realized the community room is is
terrible acoustically but if you're
you're only doing all walls I would
assume that would be the lower of the
costs no because cement block is
inherently worse than drywall to begin
with as a reflective surface and they're
also much taller walls and a much taller
ceiling than in the community
center so there's a lot more surface
area in that room than there is
in
the community
center okay
so the community center is the first
quote for $3,800 and the community room
which is the second quote is
$6,900
correct
correct all
right and you're telling us we'll get to
70% of
the appropriate level in the community
room and where in the senior
center um pretty much in the senior
center pretty much to what their
recommended Reverb level for that room
is all right
um do we want to vote on this without
final numbers you know taking out the
taxes getting the freight right what
would what would we like to do would we
like to just give Eric a ballpark to sit
there and move this forward or not do it
at all what's the choice can we just
make a motion for it not to exceed sure
yeah so it exceeds that amount he's
gonna have to come back we're gonna have
to discuss it but
[Music]
seven uh
11 uh how about 12,500 for both both
buildings
anybody Eric okay with
that Eric that's that's excluding taxes
I'm
adding
1200 1500 for for Freight
which I just still think that's
exorbitant but it's a pretty obscene
number I mean listen I like rent a truck
and go down there yourself for that yeah
doesn't weigh anything I'm happy to rent
a U-Haul for you and you can drive down
and pick it up but but I would like I
mean anyway I can't drive it doesn't
make any sense um so I'll make a motion
that uh so I'm just trying to make sure
I'm correct so it's seven for
one
it's it's four for the other so that's
11 plus $1,500 to cover Freight because
the assumption is that there's one
freight charge for
$1,298 they just put on I'm pretty sure
that's correct because when we talked
about it I told them to put all the
freight on the the community center not
the community center the community room
side because that was going to be the
bigger Bill anyway
um so I make a motion that we authorize
Eric to work with acoustical solutions
to do uh the sound deadening uh
treatments for the community room and
and the senior slash Community Center uh
great room uh not to exceed
$12,500 seconded I'll second that
further discussion on that item all
those in favor I
I
um E4 software package my senior center
yeah we discussed this last week but we
didn't really
make or last month but we didn't
actually make a
motion um so again we looked at multiple
software packages for that I think my
senior center is the most appropriate
for the things we're doing it's
basically 4,800 bucks upfront to put the
whole thing in and after that the annual
fee is about 1,700 a year to use it um
you know know for the software package
for running the
facility and that
[Music]
handles the majority of what that
building is going to be required to do
how about Transportation all that good
stuff calendar handles calendars and
transportation
perfectly um where it would be a little
imperfect is trying to fit it into
handle all the recreation if we started
doing field scheduling and things like
that on that that's a weakness it can be
done but it's not uh not as easy through
this
package and you and Tess are both in
agreement on this
software yes very definitely and and
frankly the other option is about three
times the
cost okay
so what will this program do for
us so for one thing it allows you to
track everything um it allows people to
pay for events directly um either right
on the spot or ahead of time it allows
people to sign up electronically for
programming um you know so you can run
the luncheon programs you can run senior
Transportation you can run events and
programming basically everything goes
through uh one module
basically and where would you take this
money
from uh I would take that from the
multi-use building fund
also because we don't have anything set
aside um you know in the community
center budget to cover any of this
I would just like to see it budgeted in
the next year's I mean it's I know we'd
have to wait but I'd almost like to see
this budgeted in next year instead of
expending it seems like we're bleeding
down the community center fund pretty
pretty
rapidly and this is a this is not a this
is not a one-time expense like blinds
and soundproofing this is a reoccurring
expense the reoccur expensive 1,700
doesn't bother me it's the
$4,800 yes so
but the $1,700 beginning in year two so
the first year is 4,800 year two is
$1,700 yeah so pick of it as $3,100 to
set this thing up and implement it and
then 1,700 bucks a year to run
it where I understand where you're at
Jeff and I would like to have it been in
our budget we're we're just getting
organized I think it's probably
important to sit there and try to give
them the tools or test the tools to run
that place effectively
so while I would like it to go through
the budet one thing I'd like have we
have we run this by by any of the
commissions like the senior commission
and the rec commission I would just want
to know if the seniors are comfortable
using this I mean have we discussed this
at a senior luncheon or I mean most of
well a lot of our a number of our
seniors already have the tags and logons
from when they go to other community
centers because the majority of
community centers at least in the area
run this centry does um Colombia does
Bolton does so this is kind of what most
towns are doing in this
area um
okay that's I just wanted to ask that
question that was all yeah no it's it's
a it's a good question no no doubt
and yeah I would assume though that I
mean because I sit there and look at it
a little bit differently isn't this
where Tess is going to be utilizing it
when a senior comes in and needs to do
something or calls and says they have to
to set it up set up an appointment she
would still do that if they didn't have
the
technology yeah absolutely and the the
way this works is anybody can do it from
home if they want to register from
something but you can also walk right in
the front door and it's basically a
touchcreen and you just say who am I you
know either you type your name in the
thing or you have a little card and you
key card into it um and then you say I'm
here for this and you're registered and
it keeps track of everything so when
you're going for funding and you're
trying to figure out how many rides you
gave on senior Transportation all of
that information is in there so that
that's part of the
objective uh for it so so like you said
there was a there was an issue with you
know recreational typ if we want to
start signing people up for pickle ball
and drop in basketball and uh youth
basketball and some of those other
activities you said it's problematic for
that type of use so
if you're talking about registering
somebody for pickle ball or drop in
activities that it can accommodate that
where you start having problems is if
you want to lay out a recreation
schedule or for the field and you want
to assign different times to like lots
of different groups it's not optimized
for that can it do it yes is it
difficult yes yes so that's the one
thing that I think is kind of the
weakness of this software versus the the
Civic wreck platform which we also
looked at okay so somebody wanted to
sign up for guitar lessons yoga that
type of things if it's going to be
offered that's going to be able to be
signed up for using this app yeah that
that's exactly what this is for this is
for normal operations in a community
center or a senior center for
programming it's very easy for you as
the administrator essentially to set it
up and to put the put the events in um
everything shows up as a
calendar um you know and anybody can
sign up and then it automatically tracks
who's there you know if you have yoga
and you know you have a capacity of 15
people it knows you know when the 15th
person is signed up for it it can't sign
up anymore so that kind of thing it's
it's kind of useful for and so how's the
e-com e-commerce wing of this work does
it is it just it's it's set up for
secure credit card
transactions it can be yes is there an
additional charge for that or is that
included for what we're spending the
money on I think that's in with the fee
but I could be I'm not positive on that
to be honest we want to make sure that
we can do e-commerce and people can sign
up electronically with their credit
cards and it's uh you're probably going
to have to pay transactional fees yeah
if it's like a percent if it's going to
be one or two% I'm have a problem with
that but I just want to make sure we
have that function if we're going to
purchase the
software okay because for me that's a
big that's that's a big uh component of
it so Eric can you find that out for us
and can you also do it just so we're as
transparent as possible did you get a
quote on the other
software which you said was multiple
times the cost just so we're laying it
out there yeah I can probably get you
that quote do you want to just have my
senior center give you all a
presentation at your meeting yes yeah I
would like to ask those questions and
and that way I can line that way I can
take a look at their um their software
and then I can formulate a bunch of
questions I I mean can also suggest that
what I did with test was I we went to
Colombia Senior Center and just saw how
this worked in action um because my
concern with these things is always that
you know they can be really cool but you
know you don't need somebody with a PhD
trying to figure out how to work the
thing and what I got out of it was it
was a very easy software for somebody
that was running a center to administer
Minister you know and everybody I
watched that walked in was pretty easily
able to key code themselves in and
assign them to whatever thing they were
doing so from my perspective it seems
functional um if you want a presentation
on it I will try to line that up for
your next
Mee I mean is the rest of the board
comfortable with that I would just like
to know a little bit more about it
before I voted on it it did be great
that's fine I have no problem with that
okay
okay E5 purchase of kitchen
equipment all right so as most of you
know we do have a grant uh that
will um pay for about $10,000 worth of
the cost of the equipment for the
kitchen for the community center um part
of what we're trying to do is get the
things so we can actually have a
functional food service license for the
facility um so and that implies a a
series of things needed to be added
building so um I am tomorrow meeting
with a kitchen designer because I want
to make sure that what I think will fit
in there will actually fit in there and
that we can get a design and layout um
but presuming we can I would like to go
ahead and purchase at least what we have
the grant money available and
consideration of purchasing other things
we make that fairly functional um you
know and we can keep the Food Service
license for that as opposed to running
off a temp license um which has other
restrictions what are your questions
what are you going to
purchase so I sent you uh a list today
um everything I was looking at
purchasing as well as the cut sheets on
it but basically a fridge in a
freezer um the required
sinks um that you have to have which is
essentially a three Bay wash sink a hand
sink and switching out the prep sink to
a stainless steel prep sink a commercial
microwave a coffee brewer um and
a work table and then consider actually
putting in a dishwasher there um at the
same time um and then with the layout to
include exactly how the stove goes in as
well as the Hood um you know one of the
things we've struggled with a little bit
was how to get uh you know for years the
seniors have been saying they want to be
able to do pancakes and pancake
breakfast um so we found a gas stove
that has so it's a six burner commercial
stove but it will take a uh you know
basically a griddle attachment that sits
over for the bers that gives you a you
know a a large griddle area so you can
make pancakes or whatever else you want
to fry on
that um the other thing is you know
looking at most of the senior cers most
senior centers seem to have a water and
ice a standalone water and ice
dispenser um they're really
expensive
um you know I'm we originally planned on
an under undercounter ice maker um and I
think what I would like to do is go back
to so we've gone back and forth between
buying the Standalone ice and water
dispenser or just an undercounter ice
maker um and a separate water spigot for
filling up you know uh pictures and
stuff like that I had a conversation
with mych plumbing about where we could
install it and he's pretty confident we
can put a tall picture filler right uh
right next to our uh you know our prep
sink and that saves us about $2,000
because the the uh undercounter ice
makers are a lot less expensive than the
the comboes so not a perfect solution
but probably a pretty good
solution um
and so we went around looking at various
different brands that we could get our
hands on that we could actually look at
um you know my suggestion is we use the
local distributor um in East Hartford um
you know a they're the stuff they sell
seems to have fairly good
reviews um you know they have a lot of
options in terms of what we can and you
know we have the ability to go look at
it so that's my preference um but there
are cheaper units certainly for the
fridge and freezer you know we can use
weant or Restaurant Depot um for
something that looks looks roughly the
same um they're not necessarily going to
be stainless steel interior but they are
decidedly cheaper um you know we've
looked at a couple of them their reviews
are you know somewhat
questionable um and the one thing I know
about the paradise equipment is they
have their own service staff that are
are licensed to service what they sell
so that to me the ability to know that
you can get a compressor you know fixed
if something happens
um you know is probably worth the extra
money but you know I'm certainly willing
to consider other options if if you want
me
to and I sent you the cut sheets on on
all the stuff we're looking at for
them I was just wondering if um
depending on what time tomorrow if I
could come and uh see what the designer
is talking about and planning I've
worked in commercial kitchens and I'd be
really curious to see how it's all going
to fit in there and what they're
choosing me too
sure I'll tell you
when meeting schedule for 10:30 tomorrow
morning I'd like some more time to
digest this since the time we got this
information I would like to take a look
at it a little bit more in
depth I'm assuming you're going to break
down the the total number to actually
what you're going to
incur because there's pieces that are on
here that you said you were going to
remove and adjust so like the water the
water ice maker so the the first
question I have is so the stuff for the
arer grant we really need to spend that
by December 31st so we can't wait a long
time to make that
decision um beyond that
10,000 we can order now or order
later so we have more
options when it comes to that and I'm
I'm certainly not advocating for putting
in the oven or the hood now I think
that's going to be a next year thing
that would be my guess um you know I
gave you a series of
options um I think
there's around5 or $600 in small stuff
that we technically have to purchase uh
we worked with fad and fad gave us a
list of all the things we technically
had to have um you know food servicewise
for the kitchen
um most of those will just buy on Amazon
because they're cheaper for the little
stuff
um so then can you send us an email that
tells us which pieces of this that you'd
like to buy with the grant money that's
available so we can approve it you know
via
email okay so you want just the stuff
that we're going to buy off the the
grant isn't that the because
you have money you have to spend
it and I mean I'm assuming that I I
would look at this and I go okay are you
going to try to put the sinks in so that
you can actually wash it are you going
to put one of the refrigerator in the
freezer in
but a lot of that information will be
done tomorrow when you actually have the
designer out to lay it out and you sit
there with Ann and get some perspective
on it all and then come back to us and
say I have $5,800 and this this is what
I want to spend it on okay fair enough
anybody have any problem with that
sounds good
okay uh the Leading Edge change
order
yep so do you have any problems with
that
yeah personally I think it's BS um and
I've told them multiple times I don't
think it's appropriate but they're
insisting we owe it um I think we
subtracted far more from that job um
with Public Works labor then you
know they had to make up in any overages
so I do not think it's appropriate um
but I don't think it's going away
either
um
so did you put together a number for all
the work that DPW
did so you can show
them no I did not okay but I don't I you
know
the the real question and where I think
he's wrong is is that you know he's
basically saying that a lot of this
occurred because of Errors um by the
civil engineers you know
and a little bit in the front was
appropriate and I would agree with them
but from my perspective the town Public
Works had to completely
regrade their work in the back because
they didn't meet the engineer specs and
and their argument is that the engineer
specs were right or were wrong but when
I look at the back and I look at the way
it's graded
now Public Works was able to match what
BSC engineering proposed but Leading
Edge was
not you know so from my perspective
they're wrong on that you know and we
ended up spending an awful lot of time
and effort correcting their work okay so
do I have an exact number for it no I
don't and and if you you could then you
could go back and negotiate with Leading
Edge and then come to us with a final
resolution so we could either approve it
or reject it because you've got to go
and do that so that you get with Leading
Edge and say Hey listen these are all
the things the Department of Public
Works did that you're not taking into
account and here's how it offsets this
number and is this the last change order
oh no I mean they're threatening you
know with oh well if you don't approve
this all these other things ER it does
US zero good to do this on like this
yeah no good so what I'm asking what I'm
asking is this the expected last change
order as far as I know okay yes so then
then go back go back to um Leading Edge
with the information that you've
addressed that Department of Public
Works effort labor is not being taken to
account and then sit there and negotiate
that with them and then bring the change
order to us to approve at the next
meeting if there is a change order so
and understanding it's a negotiation and
it may work and it may not work so but
at least with
the the ammunition of understanding this
is what Public Works put into this that
we didn't get reimbursed for and they
didn't have to
do that would be
great and they can't use they can't use
the issue that it's the Civil engineer's
fault no I mean I I don't I don't like
dealing with people who do that and
but you just got to deal you gota you
gotta negotiate that outside of this
meeting we're not going to get anything
done here tonight related to
it the wall that they built in the back
with the grading Associated grading was
worth more than what they're
asking just the wall that wall was not
on the plans so yeah but that's the only
way that's the only way to
establish good drainage on that
particular
area Okay the Scott Jeff not sure I
totally agree with that that's okay
listen just the three of you because
you're all that's all area of expertise
for each of you just sit there and you
know give Eric the ammunition to go back
and negotiate with them so that we don't
have to pay this money if at all
possible all right um anybody have any
other issues related to
that okay
um
G so this is uh
G GG GF GF Veil soccer contract ffi
usage usage it's under new business I
don't see the contract there I'm
expecting that we're not going to get a
contract for them they've s Tre they've
indicated that they've moved on and they
think we're in breach of their contract
and they're moving on okay we're in
breach of their contract because they
can't put lights up on the field correct
but there's nothing in the contract that
says that so they're full crap but the
reality is we're not going to be able to
make them pay for it anyway so it's
effectively a dead contract at this
point okay we'll sit there and touch
base with the town attorney on that
later um copy or contract
renewal so I put in your packet uh I
looked at essentially three
Alternatives the first is so The copier
that we copers that we have under
contract are from uh a company called
the office
works so if we just take those copers
out put essentially The Identical copier
or in using the state bid price in the
same firm it Nets out to about $45 a
month less than what we're paying now
with the same service costs so that's
one option I also got a proposal from
Rico because they're another company
that covers a lot of towns in this area
um across the board they were more
expensive um than uh the other guys
office something Office Works um the
other option I explored is what happens
if we purchase our existing
machines um there
he he wouldn't give me an exact buyout
but he said the buyout for those
existing machines because they would
have to negotiate that with the lender
is going to be somewhere between $4,000
and
$4500 for both the existing
units um they will guarantee a service
contract for at least two more years
they said likely you'll get three or
four years before they they're you know
they're still
Parts Supply they're not a machine
that's made anymore but since they were
only sold five years ago um they're
legally required to have parts for at
least seven years and he said usually
it's eight uh eight or so years before
you start having Parts
availability so if we bought them
upfront they do charge a higher service
fee for units that are you know beyond a
certain date so our per copy charge will
go up a little bit it's not a
significant amount um um you know the
bottom line is we break even 26 or 27
months from now and then depending on
how you how long the units last it's
cash positive for the town to do that um
but you have an older machine that may
or may not be less reliable so those are
really the three
options I would throw out the proposal
for Rico I don't see any advantage to
that um it doesn't give you anything you
don't already have
and we're certainly getting good service
from Office works so the question is
simply do you
extend uh do you sign a new a contract
for new machines off the state bid price
or do you buy the machines
outright
um you
know and go from
there but
uh can you give us a onepage summary of
the charges by quote so that we can see
it you know like the total monthly cost
by machine for each one of them and then
the actual cost per page like I'm I'm
thinking that the document for Office
Works is on page
correct okay so there there's two things
there's a maintenance agreement their
click charge for black only is 052 cents
and for cover color is 05 and that's
what the service contract is built into
the Quick Charge
essentially okay but where's the monthly
cost
uh I thought that proposal was in there
no that's that's what I'm I'm having
trouble with so I can sit there and see
that the black cost for the RICO is 078
so two two10 of a penny or 100ths of a
penny higher and it's 0615 cents per
color so a whole Penny higher per color
so I get that part of the equation I
don't get the monthly lease numbers I
mean just
knowing um
I'd have to go back I thought that was
actually in the packet so I apologize
for it not being I think it Nets out to
about
$175 a month for both copiers and now
it's like
it's
222 something like that it's about $45 a
month less than our existing copiers
okay but on the RICO one you have a
desktop I'm assuming you're not going to
use that in the senior center I mean so
that that's what I'm driving at like
when you do a something like this for us
you can have all the documentation
behind it so we can look at it but it's
really simple to put onepage piece of
paper on this to say here's the monthly
expenses here's the annual expenses this
is what we pay currently and then here's
potentially the the savings or the price
increase so we can understand what we're
dealing with
um to me I just don't under I mean I I
understand these are leases but it
should always be we should always try to
get a lease to own contract because if
you can get a lease to own
contract you know they don't charge you
that $4,800 which is kind of ridiculous
which is a joke um and then you can sit
there and deal with some cost savings by
just paying a higher per charge
for each copy and each color copy um
but when do you when do you need
information when do you need this
approved
by I mean our contract's been expired
for a couple months anyway so if it's
expired for a couple more leasing
company's getting a little antsy but but
I'm sure they'll hold off another month
or two so they're taking your lease
payment though
of course of course okay
um let's find out if you can just give
us the one column that says current one
column that says what Rico is going to
charge us for similar equipment one
column for what Office Works is
recommending to charge us for similar
equipment
and we'll get it approv next
cycle fair enough shouldn't be that hard
to
deal with this the only question I have
is is lease to own or lease to deal with
a buyout that would be the only thing I
would ask you to look
at okay anybody have any issues with
that okay issues I I like the leas thing
idea and that you always can get the
maintenance with it I think whereas when
you own it sometimes the maintenance is
a problem unless you've got a company
that's really good I don't
know well this company was going to sit
there and allow us to buy it out and
give us maintenance for a minimum of two
years but then you have to sit there and
do the analysis is it worth the two
years is it worth it
yeah that's comparison we can do the
math uh if the information is just
provided on one piece of paper and
you're not bouncing back and forth you
can do it but Eric uh the Avenue
contract G that's Carol that's not me
GH okay
[Music]
um so what do we um Carol if you're on
are you on here what are we attempting
to do what do we need to do for
you hi yeah okay and you're asking any
questions I'm sorry about the Avenue
contract yeah the Avenue
contract yes that's the land record
so they have our land
records uh dog
licensing trade names everything is done
in that
c they did have a $65 per month
increase still providing all of the same
Services um Eric asked me to get a
couple of Cs I did contact Po and
another I haven't heard back anything
yet with a second po but they are part
of State
contract so this is just uh a
relicensing or a re subscription fee for
what we're currently utilizing correct
it would be renewing for another five
years with the same company all
right okay um and when does this
expire it expired a couple of months
months ago okay so we're just month to
month right now at
6 okay the same the
same the same kind of information would
be beneficial for this which is what's
our current costs and what's our so
you're telling us it's going up how much
$85 currently it's 650 a month for all
the same
Services contract is 7 I'm sorry 65 750
okay so currently in the town clerk
budget you have this set at 650 a month
and it's going up to 715 per
month is the dog program
included yeah
and what is the maintenance 2020 license
for
assessor so um basically I have two
computers here the admin computer and
Public Access and then we have one other
computer that we can uh put
this in the in the town office building
access the land
records and we have that in the
assessor's office no currently it is Amy
assistant computer on her desktop
okay all right
um just as a question have we planned
for this in the current budget period to
go
up we did not and I did ask them why
they waited until after the start of our
current fiscal year to give me the
proposal so they have new people and
that's why I wasn't and I wasn't paying
attention to the expiration
dat okay so if we
so we end up with potentially seven
months times
$65 I'm assuming you have that
flexibility somewhere in your
budgets I do
okay all right Eric are there any issues
operationally that you see I mean
something that's in the town clerk's
office right now so $455 of additional
subscription costs shouldn't impact the
budget any
issues no okay no I mean the question is
is that the best vendor there's
certainly plenty of other vendors or at
least a couple of other vendors that
provide the same service um I I but I
don't have a dog in the hunt if you want
to approve this right now go for it and
we'll move on okay so it's the existing
vendor
correct
okay um
and Carol you were saying that you
looked at other vendors but they didn't
they didn't get back to you yes I did
request a quote from cop I haven't
received anything back yet and I have
checked with other clerks who we got and
um IQs another one and they're all right
in that same ball
part for a
monthly and who was the other one cop
and who
IQs is that is that the the service that
deals with the assessor's office and the
tax the tax bills I did not ask about
that I just asked other towns now the
towns that I asked they do not have an
additional computer on their system they
just have the computers that are located
in their office
admin and public ACC well the question
is does the assessor's office use
it again it is on the assistant town
clerk's
computer yes she does use it because if
we have title Searchers here um
sometimes we have a couple in the office
at the same time and we do have a second
best
topic okay so Carol you would like to
sit there and see Avenue's contract
moved
forward I would would be willing to do
that um we've had good luck with them I
haven't had any complaints from
attorneys or title
Searchers they all seem to like the
system anybody else have any questions
for the town
clerk okay anybody have any problem with
the system in the the
additional cost
$455 okay anyone want to make a motion
on that
item what was that one
no all right I'll make a motion that we
authorize the
well let me go backwards Carol do we
need a five-year contract on
this that is what they sent out I can
ask if they will shorten the contract
but every five years the last one was a
fiveyear two the last one was five years
as well
yes
okay all right uh
I'll make a motion that we authorize the
town clerk to
to or the Town Administrator to sign the
Avenue contract for the land record
management
system
second okay all those in favor
I
okay
um there was a vendor permit in our
package from Trinity
solar anyone have an issue with
that Eric did that uh are you looking
for a motion for us to authorize you to
sign
that uh well if you want to issue a
vendor permit then you should do that um
that's a board of selectman
responsibility not a Town Administrator
responsibility so if you want to give
that person a vendor permit make a
motion to that effect if you don't
don't uh I'll make a motion that we
authorize the Town Administrator to sign
the the town of Andover vendor license
for Trinity solar
LLC
good some second Scott seconded that all
those in favor I
hi okay uh 2025 meeting
dates they are on page
um the only one that I had a problem
with or I would like to adjust as I'd
like to make the October meeting October
6th it's just it's a Monday before the
holiday it's the first Monday in the
month
anybody have a problem with any of those
dates so you want October to be
October six was that again or six okay
October 6th so Columbus Day is on the
13th which is the second Monday so as
opposed to having our meeting on October
14th or whatever date we just do it the
week
before okay
anybody have any issues with any of the
dates I I mean July 4th is pushed out
far enough to to avoid the
holiday September is a week after Labor
Day so it was actually a fairly good
cycle and then November 10th is Monday
and that avoids the Veterans Day hos uh
uh holiday which is to Tuesday the
11th okay
so I'll make a motion that
um we approve the 2025 proposed meeting
dates uh with oct the October meeting
being scheduled for October
6th second
Jeff okay Scott any further discussion
on the meeting
dates all those in favor I
I um
well since we're talk well
[Music]
oh I'll talk about meeting dates later
meeting timing um item 11 approval of
the minute meetings for uh October 7th
2024 regular meeting in the uh 11b the
1021 2020 or special meeting
minutes appr motion to approve I'll
second um further discussion on the
minute meetings all those in favor
I okay Jeff did you vote I'm gonna
abstain because I was out of one meeting
okay an did you vote um I just don't
think some of it's very clear um she
makes it very cryptic and there's a few
spots that I would have changed or said
more probably probably but um I know the
part about the tri board policy on the
AES uh capital projects I spoke about
that and this doesn't
say who would quote keep an keep on the
agenda and speak with the Boe chair and
town
attorney um I guess maybe that was you
Jeff but it didn't say and then there
was no mentions about my questions about
the changes to it I thought that maybe
should have been in there
okay so do you not want to vote in favor
of
it well could we just change it change
the
minutes add some of that in there sure
you can make some recommendations to it
I I'll sit there and resend my motion
so well simply make the changes and then
we approve it as changed that's what we
do in the Planning and Zoning I
know I understand that but you'd have to
sit there and outline the changes so
I don't mind with you outling the
changes just if we can just get that
done and you know I don't even care if
we approve those minutes and you want to
hold this off to the next meeting so
that you can identify the changes from
the video and then write down what you
want um we can get that to
the to who the minute Taker and get them
done so I'm okay with that so let's push
this off till our next meeting so Eric
we're going to approve those minutes
after an um codifies her changes and we
get them into the
record fair enough all right uh item 12
treasurers
report anybody have any questions
related to the documents that were
provided
us
um I had
one under Section
transfers it says transfers I didn't
know where the money was transferred
to what page are you on start with that
oh um let's
see find that
[Music]
again he has to be on page 98 um it's
page 98 yeah
okay so what
line like 9900 transfers there's all
those things contingency trans multiuse
building fire engine fund
tanker where were all all of those money
go all of those monies go to those funds
an and they're sitting in the funds to
be used the only one that does not go to
a fund is contingency it's sitting there
as a negative I see that
potentially
used
so
um then the they like the the tree
removal fund has $50,000 in
it the building May F main fund has
100,000 in
it no that just means that's how much
money that just means that's how much
money was budgeted in this year to add
into those funds okay so that was added
in then correct is that correct yes that
is what was budgeted in this fiscal year
to go into those Capital funds it's so
those funds all received that money when
it was transferred okay
correct thank
you so just for your understanding under
5920 the AES Capital fund the board of
Finance
not the board of Selectmen transferred
$100,000 into that fund to be made
available to the AES Capital fund to
spend on its potential Capital
needs okay
okay okay anybody else with any
questions for the treasurers
report okay so we're going to move on to
uh Tax Collector's report does anybody
have any issues with tax collector's
report Eric one thing that I'd like to
do with the tax collector's
report
is um I'd like you to get the
information on personal property taxes
that are unpaid and do a better job we
need to get with the tax ector and make
sure that we understand those taxes and
also the taxes related to vehicles that
are unpaid because those are the taxes
that she should be
um really moving toward collecting as
much as possible because those are
problematic when
people either go bankrupt or you know
are not paying us those bills
those I know what you I know what you've
said in the past that it's great when
people don't pay their taxes on Real
Property I have no problem with that but
on all the other items I think we should
sit there and make a more concerted
effort on collection and we don't have
that much to be really honest but it is
something that we should know
about I mean generally we get the motor
vehicles for the majority of cases
because the ne you can't register a
vehicle if you have unpaid taxes so we
may get them a year or two late but we
almost always collect that the only ones
we're not collecting on is the people
that are cooking the books by
continually moving around registration
for vehicles among all their family
members names and there are a few of
those
um those items are the ones in my head
that we need
to do a better job or focus on
collecting those I understand the real
estate because you're not going to I
mean I I did notice a lot of leans on
the delinquent report and I well
actually there are some there
but I I also chuckled that my wife was
on the
list which she shouldn't be but uh I
figure that's a bookkeeping
issue
um and it's kind of sad that there's one
item and I I make the top 10 list or
whatever it is so okay
okay
uh excellent It's always interesting to
look through the list of people on the
on on the property tax list I love that
y
um okay so uh anybody have any questions
related to the tax collector's
reports no there's there was something
that I I forgot to bring up when we were
doing Eric's report that I went over
when I was going going over Jay's
monthly report I noticed that he was
going to have a meeting with
distinctive and I just wanted to mention
to Eric now that there's another player
in town with free removal service that
has all the same equipment as
distinctive and it's
carabetta they they took the state
contract from Distinctive now
so you should be getting up prices
they're working with municipalities also
W well since you're on that topic Scott
are we still anticipating Eric working
with eversource on a
program uh we did have a long meeting
um with
eversource um we asked them to
collaborate with us on uh major tree
removal on uh burnap Brook
Road um
um the long and the short of it
is they're not willing to collaborate
with us on that
one however they did put all of burn at
Brook on their enhanced clearing list so
most of the things we were planning on
doing and they marked a lot of stuff on
both sides of the road so so I think
we're going to get them to pay for the
majority of what needs to be done on the
road as opposed to splitting it
5050 um
so and I think that's a political thing
on their end like they couldn't
collaborate with us but they could
accomplish the same thing by adding that
to their enhanced tree trimming list
make it their responsibility so overall
I'm quite pleased with that
okay right um anybody else any other
issues they want to bring up before we
start moving well we have to deal with
the tax collector's refund request so
13d page 135 of
163 there's
$2,128 24 of refund of excess payments
so 1 two 3 four five six
7 certificate of Corrections and 1 two 3
four five six Board of assessment
appeals
okay
interesting Okay so um would someone
like to make that
motion you have it right in front of you
Jeff right I do you know how much I like
these Scott you hate them I do uh I make
a motion to approve the tax refunds in a
total of $
further
discussion I just have one point to make
if you look at that list you'll notice
that there's two people that are on the
baa that got reductions by the
baa yes and I'm sure they recused
themselves and I'm sure you could sit
there and go to the minutes and see that
they did that I'm sure they did
too okay so
um any further discussions on
that all those in favor
I or
nothing okay so let's move on to uh
departmental reports does anyone have
any questions related to any of the
department reports and I know Scott
already asked a question
about public works
so
um the building department generated
5,000 $
75770 of a total permits and now is that
using the new program
Eric that is it is in
effect and when did it go into
effect uh the day after the last meeting
so about 15 days of this would be new
potentially new permits okay so let's
sit there and see what happens in
November okay anybody else with any
question questions for any of
these reports that were provided so we
had the building
department we had Public
Works we had the
library and we had the registar of
Voters I will say on the regist of
Voters um you know and early voting in
general um we did have a really high
turnout with people who exercise their
right to early voting um I think it was
something like 38% of the registered
voters voted um early voting and we had
the highest voter turnout we've
had I I think that I know of um so from
an election
standpoint um we had excellent
participation by the citizens of the
town of
Andover 93% I think that's phenomenal
there's a reason why you want to do
things at those uh you got people to
participate which I think is phenomenal
uh I also do think that everyone that
sees Wally and Linda Derek needs to
thank them for all their hard work
because that was not easy uh two weeks
of early voting
and uh the effort they put forth needs
to be applauded
so they they got paid by a grant uh
Eric so I talked to I talked to Wally
about it he said that they paid the
majority of it was paid through a grant
correct um so the fir when the the state
first implemented early
voting they set aside money for all the
towns they supplemented this General
election with I think a
$2,000 Grant so that paid for a big
chunk of the salary uh for the early
elections nice so the question is are
they going to continue with early voting
are they going to allow their absentee
ballot rules now to
take effect because if not they're not
going to give us another Grant they're
going to make us pay for all of the
early voting requirements understood and
I don't think we're going to know I
think it sounds to me like
legislatively
and you know this could be wrong because
this is just talking to uh krog's
lobbyist about how they think this is
going but what they think they're going
to do is just shrink and not have so
many days of early voting um but
definitely keep some early voting along
with uh the more permissive absentee
balling is what they think is going to
happen but whether the legislature does
that or not or the Secretary of State's
office does that or not don't
know um I still think it's it's
a it's uh 93% is pretty good compared to
what we've gotten in Prior voting Cycles
it's very
good okay we've tended to run in the
high in the mid 80s for normal
presidential
Cycles but 93% is pretty
awesome
yeah I just I was surprised at how
cramped it was for the early voting it
just seemed like we should have given
them a bigger room or something I mean
there was nobody else waiting when I
went but it was just very very cramped
to get down there
and sign in and then go and vote in the
vault and it was all sorts of
I thought we would have had them in the
new community center or something like
that or in the community room one or the
other okay um anybody else on any other
issues okay any correspondents Eric item
15 nope none that I know of all right
public speak uh item seven uh 16 I'll
start with h Bata
gamsky no thank you Jeff okay Bill
Penn Bill if you can unmute you want to
talk I'll come back to you if you want
to put your hand up um Stephen King yeah
I wanted to uh mention uh something you
discussed about uh aspelin and
eversource I spoke to the planner who's
been on burnap Brook uh from a
standpoint of safety they're starting in
about 2 weeks they're taking a
significant amount of trees down and
considering amount of bicyclists Runners
and uh Walkers that we have you might
want to just make everybody uh aware of
what's going on down here um there's a
lot of trees coming
down okay thank you uh Joan
Ebert yep just real quick I wanted to
wish you guys all luck as you continue
your search for your new board member I
know you've had as I've said before good
candidates come forward and a lot more
that have put their hat in the ring too
um it's great to see everybody wanting
to give you know service to their town
and then just a quick point on the
community center director position that
was spoken about tonight I just hope
truthfully that you keep her involved in
all aspects of the building I think it's
important that as you know the director
she's involved in you know all three of
those big categories that Eric brought
up if we took one away I just think that
would
unfortunate I think that everyone can
work together it was presented to the
town that way last year when you were
hiring for that new position so again
I'm disappointed it's not full-time like
it was supposed to be but um that being
said I just think it's important that
she has her hat in all three um
uh items thank
you uh Linda Armstrong
[Music]
okay move on from that uh Carol
Lee I'm all set thank you all right
Alicia
[Music]
Lee okay I'll come back to you Lisa Liz
latch I'm all set thank you thank you
all so much right I'll come back back to
Alicia Alicia
anything
okay excuse me Bill Penn one more shot
Linda Armstrong one more shot okay um
item 17
adjournment motion to
adjourn excellent who seconded that and
you gonna second that I can second
it Ann has seconded although in favor I
thank you very much thanks a lot